+++
title = "Individual Lessons"
date = 2018-10-17T21:41:37+02:00
draft = false
menu = "main"
weight = 6
+++

> Alexander had found a method applicable to most common problems of daily 
  life: the problem of habitual misuse of the self, of thoughtlessness.
  **— Walter Carrington MSI 1996**

## From a lost/reduced psycho-physical balance to effortless movement

We often get so caught up by the fast and busy lives that we hardly spend any
more time on ourselves. This leads to that we become aware (too)late when our
bodies literally suffers from stress and/or overload. Small kids react and move
efficiently in a natural and light way. In the course of years the efficient and
light working coordination between the cooperating (balance)mechanisms (read:
think, want and feel) become unbalanced and with that the musculoskeletal system
loses its subtle working, and with that, has to do more to keep us upright, in
one way or the other. The seemingly effortlessness of moving in small children
slowly declines and changes unnoticed into a stiffer way of moving, which can
clearly be seen in adults. We will not get this coordination, with its
associated subtle muscle activities or control back, by simply doing more
exercises or trying harder. As that is, reinforcing the present or habitual way
of reacting in processes like thinking, willing and feeling (the use of
ourselves), these have gotten us into problems in the first place. That means at
a basic level nothing has changed, only at a superficial level.

Alexander discovered that our (automatic) reactions are the key to let the
subtle cooperating mechanisms work uninterfered with. When we do not try to do
our best, our reactions to impulses (from within and outside us) will get the
space to work more efficient. Support of the body and movement will happen
seemingly effortless. Through the technique Alexander developed, our body will
get back the original possibilities of the subtle cooperating (balance)
mechanisms.

## What do you learn?

Alexander Technique lessons are based on simple, but thorough principles. You
will work on conscious coordination in action. The teacher teaches you to stop
with immediate, irrelevant and often u Unconscious physical and mental
reactions, which will give you time and space for conscious direction of your
body, brain or yourself.

The Technique teaches you to gain conscious and constructive controle over the
use of yourself. You learn to tackle the causes of complaints in a new way. You
do not fixate on the complaint, but you direct your attention on unlearning
irrelevant responses or inefficient use of your muscles, in different
situations. De hands of the teacher are an important aspect in letting you
clearly experience, that by creating mental space, you subsequently, can choose
to prevent the current, often fixed (movement)patterns, to come about. Verbal
instructions help too in this process.

## What outcome can you expect?

Some positive results; prevention of unnecessary and unjust reactions, through
which you will get more freedom of choice in how you like to be with an
appropriate and more efficient use of your muscles, in different situations.

After a number of lessons pupils experience themselves as more quiet and
restful, in more exciting or tense moments too. Also they may hear often that
they have grown, become taller. Figurative, as the Alexander Technique brings
about a change in how you stand in life. Literally, as the Alexander Technique
prevents or solves unnecessary shortening of the muscles. Most people value the
Technique because one can take one’s own responsibility for one’s own well
being, actively.

## For whom is the Alexander Technique?
The Alexander Technique is for everybody who is interested in reacting and
moving more efficiently. For people who have neck-, back- and shoulder
complaints or other complaints, which are caused by wrong habits or stress.

People who have to make partial or subtle movements, either in their daily
activities or by profession, like musicians. Find in the Alexander Technique a
good relief or support. Musicians, dancers and actors experience even more
perfection in their reaction and movement patterns through the Technique, which
by practising harder and more not would have accomplished.

Similarly, people with physically demanding professions, achieve less physical
complaints with less and with better controlled muscle strength.

For people with psychological complaints, the Technique will bring possibly more
psychological rest. (We do not claim to work as psychologists).

## Lessons in the Alexander Technique.

Lessons in the Technique are most beneficial on an individual basis. You learn
the Technique through the hands of the teacher in combination with verbal
instructions. At first you achieve result through undergo and experience the
Technique. Repetition is necessary in order to break habitual patterns. As you
go along you will notice that the principals of the Technique will come home to
you in your daily activities.

Mostly after a demonstration lesson or a few lessons, you will notice the
difference. For a longer lasting and more established effect you need a series
of 20 to 50 lessons. After this series of lessons you will be able to apply the
principles of the Alexander Technique in your daily life. After that, as
required, you can take the od lesson to remain conscious of the principles.

## What does it cost?

A lesson cost anything between € 35,- and € 60,- (incl. vat), depending on length of time and experience of the teacher.
Would you like to book a lesson or do you have questions? Please, do [contact us](#contact) .

For an overview of teachers in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the world:
- [Alexander Techniek leraren in Nederland](http://www.alexandertechniek.nl/)
- [Alexander Techniek leraren in het buitenland](http://www.alexandertechniqueworldwide.com/)

On this website you find more information on training to become a teacher in the Alexander Techniek.

